src/kash/docs/markdown/topics/a3_getting_started.md, before:

## Getting Started

### Use Tab Completion and Help!

Tab completion is your friend!
Just press tab to get lists of commands and guidance on help from the LLM-based
assistant.

You can also ask any question directly in the shell.

Type `help` for the full documentation.

### An Example: Transcribing Videos

The simplest way to illustrate how to use kash is by example.
You can go through the commands below a few at a time, trying each one.

This is a "real" example that uses a bunch of libraries.
So to get it to work you must install not just the main shell but the kash "media kit"
with extra dependencies.

You need the following tools:

```shell
# On MacOS:
brew install ripgrep bat eza hexyl imagemagick libmagic ffmpeg 
# On Linux:
apt install ripgrep bat eza hexyl imagemagick libmagic ffmpeg
```

Then install the `kash-media`, which includes kash-shell and many other libs like yt-dlp
for YouTube handling:

```shell
uv tool install kash-media
```

Then run `kash` to start.

For each command below you can use tab completion (which shows information about each
command or option) or run with `--help` to get more details.

```shell
# Check the help page for a full overview:
help

# Confirm kash is set up correctly with right tools:
check_system_tools

# The assistant is built into the shell, so you can just ask questions on the
# command line. Note you can just press Space twice and it will insert the question
# mark for you:
? how do I get started with a new workspace

# Set up a workspace to test things out (we'll use fitness as an example):
workspace fitness

# A short transcription (use this one or pick any video on YouTube):
transcribe https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KLSRg2s3SSY

# Note there is a selection indicated.
# We can then look at the selected item easily, because commands often
# will just work on the selection automatically:
show

# Now let's manipulate that transcription. Note we are using the outputs
# of each previous command, which are auto-selected as input to each
# subsequent command. You can always run `show` to see the last result.

# Remove the speaker id <span> tags from the transcript.
strip_html
show

# Break the text into paragraphs. Note this is smart enough to "filter"
# the diff so even if the LLM modifies the text, we only let it insert
# newlines.
break_into_paragraphs
show

# Look at the paragraphs and (by following the `derived_from` relation
# this doc up to find the original source) then infer the timestamps
# and backfill them, inserting timestamped link to the YouTube video
# at the end of each paragraph.
backfill_timestamps
show

# How about we add some headings?
insert_section_headings

# How about we compare what we just did with what there was there
# previously? 
diff

# If you're wondering how that works, it is an example of a command
# that looks at the selection history.
select --history

# And add some summary bullets and a description:
add_summary_bullets
add_description

# Note we are just using Markdown still but inserting <div> tags to
# add needed structure.
show

# Render it as a PDF:
create_pdf

# See the PDF.
show

# Cool. But it would be nice to have some frame captures from the video.
? are there any actions to get screen captures from the video

# Oh yep, there is!
# But we're going to want to run it on the previous doc, not the PDF.
# Let's see what the files are so far.
files

# Note we could select the file like this before we run the next command
# with `select <some-file>.doc.md`. But actually we can see the history
# of items we've selected:
select --history

# And just back up to the previous one.
select --previous

# Look at it again. Yep, there should be timestamps in the text.
show

# As a side note, not all actions work on all items. So we also have
# a way to check preconditions to see what attributes a given item has.
# Note that for this doc `has_timestamps` is true.
preconditions

# And there is a way to see what commands are compatible with the current
# selection based on these preconditions.
suggest_actions

# Okay let's try it. (If you're using a shell that supports kash well,
# you can just click the command name!)
insert_frame_captures

# Note the screen capture images go to the assets folder as assets.
files

# Let's look at that as a web page.
show_webpage

# Note that works because unlike regular `show`, that command
# runs actions to convert a pretty HTML format.
show_webpage --help

# And you can actually how this works by looking at its source:
source_code show_webpage

# What if something isn't working right?
# Sometimes we may want to browse more detailed system logs:
logs

# Note transcription works with multiple speakers, thanks to Deepgram
# diarization. 
transcribe https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_8djNYprRDI
show

# We can create more advanced commands that combine sequences of actions.
# This command does everything we just did above: transcribe, format,
# include timestamps for each paragraph, etc.
transcribe_format --help
transcribe_format https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_8djNYprRDI

# Getting a little fancier, this one adds little paragraph annotations and
# a nicer summary at the top:
transcribe_annotate_summarize https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_8djNYprRDI

show_webpage
```

This is only the beginning but should give a flavor for how you can use kash.
With more actions, you can then take a transcript like this and have actions to extract
concepts, look up more about them with Perplexity, and crawl and save all the resources.
You might then visualize all the concepts.
All of these steps are just actions.

### Creating a New Workspace

Although you don't always need one, a *workspace* is very helpful for any real work in
kash. It's just a directory of files, plus a `.kash/` directory with various logs and
metadata.

Note the `.kash/cache` directory contains all the downloaded videos and media you
download, so it can get large.
You can delete these files if they take up too much space.

Note the `.kash/cache` directory contains all the downloaded videos and media you
download, so it can get large.
You can delete these files if they take up too much space.
(See the `cache_list` and `clear_cache` commands.)

Pick a workspace that encompasses a project or topic, and it lets you keep things
organized.

Type `workspace` any time to see the current workspace.

By default, when you are not using the shell inside a workspace directory, or when you
run kash the first time, it uses the default *global workspace*.

Once you create a workspace, you can `cd` into that workspace and that will become the
current workspace. (If you're familiar with how the `git` command-line works in
conjunction with the `.git/` directory, this behavior is very similar.)

To start a new workspace, run a command like

```
workspace health
```

This will create a workspace directory called `health` in the current directory.
You can run `cd health` or `workspace health` to switch to that directory and begin
working.

### Essential Kash Commands

Kash has quite a few basic commands that are easier to use than usual shell commands.
You can always run `help` for a full list, or run any command with the `--help` option
to see more about the command.

A few of the most important commands for managing files and work are these:

- `check_system_tools` to confirm your kash setup has necessary tools (like bat and
  ffmpeg).

- `files` lists files in one or more paths, with sorting, filtering, and grouping.

- `show` lets you show any file you wish, or with no argument shows the first file in
  the current selection.
  It auto-detects whether to show the file in the console, the browser, or using a
  native app (like Excel for a .xls file), but you can customize this with options (see
  `--help`).

- `show_webpage` formats Markdown or HTML documents as a nice web page and opens your
  browser to view it.

- `workspace` shows or selects or creates a new workspace.
  Initially you work in the `global` workspace but for more real work you'll want to
  create a workspace, which is a directory to hold the files you are working with.

- `select` shows or sets selections, which are the set of files the next command will
  run on, within the current workspace.

- `edit` runs the currently configured editor (based on the `EDITOR` environment
  variable) on any file, or the current selection.

- `param` lets you set certain common parameters, such as what LLM to use (if you wish
  to use non-default model or language).

- `logs` to see full logs (typically more detailed than what you see in the console).

- `history` to see recent commands you've run.

- `import_item` to add a resource such as a URL or a file to your local workspace.

- `download` downloads a page from a URL, or video/audio media from any of several
  services like YouTube or Apple Podcasts (using yt-dlp).

- `chat` chat with any configured LLM, and save the chat as a chat document.

- `markdownify` fetches a webpage and converts it to markdown.

- `summarize_as_bullets` summarizes a text document as bulleted items.

If you use the `kash-media` kit and its dependencies, you get additional actions like:

- `transcribe` transcribes video or audio as text document, using Deepgram.

- `create_pdf` formats Markdown or HTML documents as a PDF.

All the above commands have help and the ability to see their own source code.
For example:

```shell
markdownify --help
markdownify --show_source 
```

Commit message:

Upgrade deps. Remove scipy dep.
Update gemini models.

src/kash/docs/markdown/topics/a3_getting_started.md, after:

## Getting Started

### Use Tab Completion and Help!

Tab completion is your friend!
Just press tab to get lists of commands and guidance on help from the LLM-based
assistant.

You can also ask any question directly in the shell.

Type `help` for the full documentation.

### An Example: Transcribing Videos

The simplest way to illustrate how to use kash is by example.
You can go through the commands below a few at a time, trying each one.

This is a "real" example that uses a bunch of libraries.
So to get it to work you must install not just the main shell but the kash "media kit"
with extra dependencies.

You need the following tools:

```shell
# On MacOS:
brew install ripgrep bat eza hexyl imagemagick libmagic ffmpeg 
# On Linux:
apt install ripgrep bat eza hexyl imagemagick libmagic ffmpeg
```

Then install the `kash-media`, which includes kash-shell and many other libs like yt-dlp
for YouTube handling:

```shell
uv tool install kash-media
```

Then run `kash` to start.

For each command below you can use tab completion (which shows information about each
command or option) or run with `--help` to get more details.

```shell
# Check the help page for a full overview:
help

# Confirm kash is set up correctly with right tools:
check_system_tools

# The assistant is built into the shell, so you can just ask questions on the
# command line. Note you can just press Space twice and it will insert the question
# mark for you:
? how do I get started with a new workspace

# Set up a workspace to test things out (we'll use fitness as an example):
workspace fitness

# A short transcription (use this one or pick any video on YouTube):
transcribe https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KLSRg2s3SSY

# Note there is a selection indicated.
# We can then look at the selected item easily, because commands often
# will just work on the selection automatically:
show

# Now let's manipulate that transcription. Note we are using the outputs
# of each previous command, which are auto-selected as input to each
# subsequent command. You can always run `show` to see the last result.

# Remove the speaker id <span> tags from the transcript.
strip_html
show

# Break the text into paragraphs. Note this is smart enough to "filter"
# the diff so even if the LLM modifies the text, we only let it insert
# newlines.
break_into_paragraphs
show

# Look at the paragraphs and (by following the `derived_from` relation
# this doc up to find the original source) then infer the timestamps
# and backfill them, inserting timestamped link to the YouTube video
# at the end of each paragraph.
backfill_timestamps
show

# How about we add some headings?
insert_section_headings

# How about we compare what we just did with what there was there
# previously? 
diff

# If you're wondering how that works, it is an example of a command
# that looks at the selection history.
select --history

# And add some summary bullets and a description:
add_summary_bullets
add_description

# Note we are just using Markdown still but inserting <div> tags to
# add needed structure.
show

# Render it as a PDF:
create_pdf

# See the PDF.
show

# Cool. But it would be nice to have some frame captures from the video.
? are there any actions to get screen captures from the video

# Oh yep, there is!
# But we're going to want to run it on the previous doc, not the PDF.
# Let's see what the files are so far.
files

# Note we could select the file like this before we run the next command
# with `select <some-file>.doc.md`. But actually we can see the history
# of items we've selected:
select --history

# And just back up to the previous one.
select --previous

# Look at it again. Yep, there should be timestamps in the text.
show

# As a side note, not all actions work on all items. So we also have
# a way to check preconditions to see what attributes a given item has.
# Note that for this doc `has_timestamps` is true.
preconditions

# And there is a way to see what commands are compatible with the current
# selection based on these preconditions.
suggest_actions

# Okay let's try it. (If you're using a shell that supports kash well,
# you can just click the command name!)
insert_frame_captures

# Note the screen capture images go to the assets folder as assets.
files

# Let's look at that as a web page.
show_webpage

# Note that works because unlike regular `show`, that command
# runs actions to convert a pretty HTML format.
show_webpage --help

# And you can actually how this works by looking at its source:
source_code show_webpage

# What if something isn't working right?
# Sometimes we may want to browse more detailed system logs:
logs

# Note transcription works with multiple speakers, thanks to Deepgram
# diarization. 
transcribe https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_8djNYprRDI
show

# We can create more advanced commands that combine sequences of actions.
# This command does everything we just did above: transcribe, format,
# include timestamps for each paragraph, etc.
transcribe_format --help
transcribe_format https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_8djNYprRDI

# Getting a little fancier, this one adds little paragraph annotations and
# a nicer summary at the top:
transcribe_annotate_summarize https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_8djNYprRDI

show_webpage
```

This is only the beginning but should give a flavor for how you can use kash.
With more actions, you can then take a transcript like this and have actions to extract
concepts, look up more about them with Perplexity, and crawl and save all the resources.
You might then visualize all the concepts.
All of these steps are just actions.

### Creating a New Workspace

Although you don't always need one, a *workspace* is very helpful for any real work in
kash. It's just a directory of files, plus a `.kash/` directory with various logs and
metadata.

Note the `.kash/cache` directory contains all the downloaded videos and media you
download, so it can get large.
You can delete these files if they take up too much space.

Note the `.kash/cache` directory contains all the downloaded videos and media you
download, so it can get large.
You can delete these files if they take up too much space.
(See the `cache_list` and `clear_cache` commands.)

Pick a workspace that encompasses a project or topic, and it lets you keep things
organized.

Type `workspace` any time to see the current workspace.

By default, when you are not using the shell inside a workspace directory, or when you
run kash the first time, it uses the default *global workspace*.

Once you create a workspace, you can `cd` into that workspace and that will become the
current workspace. (If you're familiar with how the `git` command-line works in
conjunction with the `.git/` directory, this behavior is very similar.)

To start a new workspace, run a command like

```
workspace health
```

This will create a workspace directory called `health` in the current directory.
You can run `cd health` or `workspace health` to switch to that directory and begin
working.

### Essential Kash Commands

Kash has quite a few basic commands that are easier to use than usual shell commands.
You can always run `help` for a full list, or run any command with the `--help` option
to see more about the command.

A few of the most important commands for managing files and work are these:

- `self_check` to check existing .env file and installed tools (like bat and ffmpeg)

- `self_configure` to help you configure your .env files and LLM models

- `files` lists files in one or more paths, with sorting, filtering, and grouping.

- `show` lets you show any file you wish, or with no argument shows the first file in
  the current selection.
  It auto-detects whether to show the file in the console, the browser, or using a
  native app (like Excel for a .xls file), but you can customize this with options (see
  `--help`).

- `show_webpage` formats Markdown or HTML documents as a nice web page and opens your
  browser to view it.

- `workspace` shows or selects or creates a new workspace.
  Initially you work in the `global` workspace but for more real work you'll want to
  create a workspace, which is a directory to hold the files you are working with.

- `select` shows or sets selections, which are the set of files the next command will
  run on, within the current workspace.

- `edit` runs the currently configured editor (based on the `EDITOR` environment
  variable) on any file, or the current selection.

- `param` lets you set certain common parameters, such as what LLM to use (if you wish
  to use non-default model or language).

- `logs` to see full logs (typically more detailed than what you see in the console).

- `history` to see recent commands you've run.

- `import_item` to add a resource such as a URL or a file to your local workspace.

- `download` downloads a page from a URL, or video/audio media from any of several
  services like YouTube or Apple Podcasts (using yt-dlp).

- `chat` chat with any configured LLM, and save the chat as a chat document.

- `markdownify` fetches a webpage and converts it to markdown.

- `summarize_as_bullets` summarizes a text document as bulleted items.

If you use the `kash-media` kit and its dependencies, you get additional actions like:

- `transcribe` transcribes video or audio as text document, using Deepgram.

- `create_pdf` formats Markdown or HTML documents as a PDF.

All the above commands have help and the ability to see their own source code.
For example:

```shell
markdownify --help
markdownify --show_source 
```
