src/kash/docs/markdown/topics/a4_getting_started.md, before:

## Getting Started

### Use Tab Completion and Help!

Tab completion is your friend!
Just press tab to get lists of commands and guidance on help from the LLM-based
assistant.

You can also ask any question directly in the shell.

Type `help` for the full documentation.

### An Example: Transcribing Videos

The simplest way to illustrate how to use kash is by example.
You can go through the commands below a few at a time, trying each one.

For each command below you can use tab completion (which shows information about each
command or option) or run with `--help` to get more details.

```shell
# Check the help page for a full overview:
help

# Confirm kash is set up correctly with right tools:
check_tools

# The assistant is built into the shell, so you can just ask questions on the
# command line. Note you can just press Space twice and it will insert the question
# mark for you:
? how do I get started with a new workspace

# Set up a workspace to test things out (we'll use fitness as an example):
workspace fitness

# A short transcription (use this one or pick any video on YouTube):
transcribe https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KLSRg2s3SSY

# Note there is a selection indicated.
# We can then look at the selected item easily, because commands often
# will just work on the selection automatically:
show

# Now let's manipulate that transcription. Note we are using the outputs
# of each previous command, which are auto-selected as input to each
# subsequent command. You can always run `show` to see the last result.

# Remove the speaker id <span> tags from the transcript.
strip_html
show

# Break the text into paragraphs. Note this is smart enough to "filter"
# the diff so even if the LLM modifies the text, we only let it insert
# newlines.
break_into_paragraphs
show

# Look at the paragraphs and (by following the `derived_from` relation
# this doc up to find the original source) then infer the timestamps
# and backfill them, inserting timestamped link to the YouTube video
# at the end of each paragraph.
backfill_timestamps
show

# How about we add some headings?
insert_section_headings

# How about we compare what we just did with what there was there
# previously? 
diff

# If you're wondering how that works, it is an example of a command
# that looks at the selection history.
select --history

# And add some summary bullets and a description:
add_summary_bullets
add_description

# Note we are just using Markdown still but inserting <div> tags to
# add needed structure.
show

# Render it as a PDF:
create_pdf

# See the PDF.
show

# Cool. But it would be nice to have some frame captures from the video.
? are there any actions to get screen captures from the video

# Oh yep, there is!
# But we're going to want to run it on the previous doc, not the PDF.
# Let's see what the files are so far.
files

# Note we could select the file like this before we run the next command
# with `select <some-file>.doc.md`. But actually we can see the history
# of items we've selected:
select --history

# And just back up to the previous one.
select --previous

# Look at it again. Yep, there should be timestamps in the text.
show

# As a side note, not all actions work on all items. So we also have
# a way to check preconditions to see what attributes a given item has.
# Note that for this doc `has_timestamps` is true.
preconditions

# And there is a way to see what commands are compatible with the current
# selection based on these preconditions.
suggest_actions

# Okay let's try it. (If you're using a shell that supports kash well,
# you can just click the command name!)
insert_frame_captures

# Note the screen capture images go to the assets folder as assets.
files

# Let's look at that as a web page.
show_webpage

# Note that works because unlike regular `show`, that command
# runs actions to convert a pretty HTML format.
show_webpage --help

# And you can actually how this works by looking at its source:
source_code show_webpage

# What if something isn't working right?
# Sometimes we may want to browse more detailed system logs:
logs

# Note transcription works with multiple speakers, thanks to Deepgram
# diarization. 
transcribe https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_8djNYprRDI
show

# We can create more advanced commands that combine sequences of actions.
# This command does everything we just did above: transcribe, format,
# include timestamps for each paragraph, etc.
transcribe_format --help
transcribe_format https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_8djNYprRDI

# Getting a little fancier, this one adds little paragraph annotations and
# a nicer summary at the top:
transcribe_annotate_summarize https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_8djNYprRDI

# A few more possibilities...

# Note it's fine to rerun commands on the same arguments and whenever
# possible intermediate results are cached. The philosophy is actions
# should be cached and idempotent when possible (a bit like a makefile).

# Let's now look at the concepts discussed in that video (adjust the filename
# if needed):
transcribe_format https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_8djNYprRDI
find_concepts

# This is the list of concepts:
show

# But we can actually save them as items:
save_concepts

# We now have about 40 concepts. But maybe some are near duplicates (like
# "high intensity interval training" vs "high intensity intervals").
# Let's embed them and find near duplicates:
find_near_duplicates

# In my case I see one near duplicate, which I'll archive:
archive

# And for fun now let's visualize them in 3d (proof of concept, this could
# get a lot better):
graph_view --concepts_only

# We can also list all videos on a channel, saving links to each one as
# a resource .yml file:
list_channel https://www.youtube.com/@Kboges

# Look at what we have and transcribe a couple more:
files resources
transcribe resources/quality_first.resource.yml resources/why_we_train.resource.yml

# Another interesting note: you can process a really long document.
# This one is a 3-hour interview. Kash uses sliding windows that process a
# group of paragraphs at a time, then stitches the results back together:
transcribe_format https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=juD99_sPWGU

show_webpage
```

### Creating a New Workspace

Although you don't always need one, a *workspace* is very helpful for any real work in
Kash. It's just a directory of files, plus a `.kash/` directory with various logs and
metadata.

Note the `.kash/cache` directory contains all the downloaded videos and media you
download, so it can get large.
You can delete these files if they take up too much space.

Typically, we name them like `health.kb` or `personal.kb`, because that makes it clear
they are in a certain format and may have other data.

Pick a workspace that encompasses a project or topic, and it lets you keep things
organized.

Type `workspace` any time to see the current workspace.

By default, when you are not using the shell inside a workspace directory, or when you
run Kash the first time, it uses the default *sandbox workspace*.

Once you create a workspace, you can `cd` into that workspace and that will become the
current workspace. (If you're familiar with how the `git` command-line works in
conjunction with the `.git/` directory, this behavior is very similar.)

To start a new workspace, run a command like

```
workspace health
```

This will create a workspace directory called `health.kb` in the current directory.
You can run `cd health.kb` or `workspace health` to switch to that directory and begin
working.

### Essential Kash Commands

Kash has quite a few basic commands that are easier to use than usual shell commands.
You can always run `help` for a full list, or run any command with the `--help` option
to see more about the command.

A few of the most important commands for managing files and work are these:

- `check_tools` to confirm your kash setup has necessary tools (like bat and ffmpeg).

- `files` lists files in one or more paths, with sorting, filtering, and grouping.

- `workspace` to show or select or create a new workspace.
  Initially you work in the "sandbox" workspace but for more real work you'll want to
  create a workspace, which is a directory to hold the files you are working with.

- `select` shows or sets selections, which are the set of files the next command will
  run on, within the current workspace.

- `edit` runs the currently configured editor (based on the `EDITOR` environment
  variable) on any file, or the current selection.

- `show` lets you show the first file in the current selection or any file you wish.
  It auto-detects whether to show the file in the console, the browser, or using a
  native app (like Excel for a .xls file).

- `param` lets you set certain common parameters, such as what LLM to use (if you wish
  to use non-default model or language).

- `logs` to see full logs (typically more detailed than what you see in the console).

- `history` to see recent commands you've run.

- `import_item` to add a resource such as a URL or a file to your local workspace.

The set of actions that do specific useful things is much longer, but a few to be aware
of include:

- `chat` chat with any configured LLM, and save the chat as a chat document.

- `web_search_topic` searches the web using Exa.

- `crawl_webpage` fetches a webpage and scrapes the content as text, using Firecrawl.

- `download_media` downloads video or audio media from any of several services like
  YouTube or Apple Podcasts, using yt-dlp.

- `transcribe` transcribes video or audio as text document, using Deepgram.

- `proofread` proofreads a document, editing it for typos and errors only.

- `describe_briefly` describes the contents of a document in about a paragraph.

- `summarize_as_bullets` summarizes a text document as a bulleted item.

- `break_into_paragraphs` breaks a long block of text into paragraphs.

- `insert_section_headings` inserts section headings into a document, assuming it is a
  document (like a transcript after you've run `break_into_paragraphs`) that has
  paragraphs but no section headers.

- `show_webpage` formats Markdown or HTML documents as a nice web page and opens your
  browser to view it.

- `create_pdf` formats Markdown or HTML documents as a PDF.

Commit message:

Remove .kb suffix convention.
Seems needlessly complex and we are increasingly using various directories as kash workspaces.

src/kash/docs/markdown/topics/a4_getting_started.md, after:

## Getting Started

### Use Tab Completion and Help!

Tab completion is your friend!
Just press tab to get lists of commands and guidance on help from the LLM-based
assistant.

You can also ask any question directly in the shell.

Type `help` for the full documentation.

### An Example: Transcribing Videos

The simplest way to illustrate how to use kash is by example.
You can go through the commands below a few at a time, trying each one.

For each command below you can use tab completion (which shows information about each
command or option) or run with `--help` to get more details.

```shell
# Check the help page for a full overview:
help

# Confirm kash is set up correctly with right tools:
check_tools

# The assistant is built into the shell, so you can just ask questions on the
# command line. Note you can just press Space twice and it will insert the question
# mark for you:
? how do I get started with a new workspace

# Set up a workspace to test things out (we'll use fitness as an example):
workspace fitness

# A short transcription (use this one or pick any video on YouTube):
transcribe https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KLSRg2s3SSY

# Note there is a selection indicated.
# We can then look at the selected item easily, because commands often
# will just work on the selection automatically:
show

# Now let's manipulate that transcription. Note we are using the outputs
# of each previous command, which are auto-selected as input to each
# subsequent command. You can always run `show` to see the last result.

# Remove the speaker id <span> tags from the transcript.
strip_html
show

# Break the text into paragraphs. Note this is smart enough to "filter"
# the diff so even if the LLM modifies the text, we only let it insert
# newlines.
break_into_paragraphs
show

# Look at the paragraphs and (by following the `derived_from` relation
# this doc up to find the original source) then infer the timestamps
# and backfill them, inserting timestamped link to the YouTube video
# at the end of each paragraph.
backfill_timestamps
show

# How about we add some headings?
insert_section_headings

# How about we compare what we just did with what there was there
# previously? 
diff

# If you're wondering how that works, it is an example of a command
# that looks at the selection history.
select --history

# And add some summary bullets and a description:
add_summary_bullets
add_description

# Note we are just using Markdown still but inserting <div> tags to
# add needed structure.
show

# Render it as a PDF:
create_pdf

# See the PDF.
show

# Cool. But it would be nice to have some frame captures from the video.
? are there any actions to get screen captures from the video

# Oh yep, there is!
# But we're going to want to run it on the previous doc, not the PDF.
# Let's see what the files are so far.
files

# Note we could select the file like this before we run the next command
# with `select <some-file>.doc.md`. But actually we can see the history
# of items we've selected:
select --history

# And just back up to the previous one.
select --previous

# Look at it again. Yep, there should be timestamps in the text.
show

# As a side note, not all actions work on all items. So we also have
# a way to check preconditions to see what attributes a given item has.
# Note that for this doc `has_timestamps` is true.
preconditions

# And there is a way to see what commands are compatible with the current
# selection based on these preconditions.
suggest_actions

# Okay let's try it. (If you're using a shell that supports kash well,
# you can just click the command name!)
insert_frame_captures

# Note the screen capture images go to the assets folder as assets.
files

# Let's look at that as a web page.
show_webpage

# Note that works because unlike regular `show`, that command
# runs actions to convert a pretty HTML format.
show_webpage --help

# And you can actually how this works by looking at its source:
source_code show_webpage

# What if something isn't working right?
# Sometimes we may want to browse more detailed system logs:
logs

# Note transcription works with multiple speakers, thanks to Deepgram
# diarization. 
transcribe https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_8djNYprRDI
show

# We can create more advanced commands that combine sequences of actions.
# This command does everything we just did above: transcribe, format,
# include timestamps for each paragraph, etc.
transcribe_format --help
transcribe_format https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_8djNYprRDI

# Getting a little fancier, this one adds little paragraph annotations and
# a nicer summary at the top:
transcribe_annotate_summarize https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_8djNYprRDI

# A few more possibilities...

# Note it's fine to rerun commands on the same arguments and whenever
# possible intermediate results are cached. The philosophy is actions
# should be cached and idempotent when possible (a bit like a makefile).

# Let's now look at the concepts discussed in that video (adjust the filename
# if needed):
transcribe_format https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_8djNYprRDI
find_concepts

# This is the list of concepts:
show

# But we can actually save them as items:
save_concepts

# We now have about 40 concepts. But maybe some are near duplicates (like
# "high intensity interval training" vs "high intensity intervals").
# Let's embed them and find near duplicates:
find_near_duplicates

# In my case I see one near duplicate, which I'll archive:
archive

# And for fun now let's visualize them in 3d (proof of concept, this could
# get a lot better):
graph_view --concepts_only

# We can also list all videos on a channel, saving links to each one as
# a resource .yml file:
list_channel https://www.youtube.com/@Kboges

# Look at what we have and transcribe a couple more:
files resources
transcribe resources/quality_first.resource.yml resources/why_we_train.resource.yml

# Another interesting note: you can process a really long document.
# This one is a 3-hour interview. Kash uses sliding windows that process a
# group of paragraphs at a time, then stitches the results back together:
transcribe_format https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=juD99_sPWGU

show_webpage
```

### Creating a New Workspace

Although you don't always need one, a *workspace* is very helpful for any real work in
Kash. It's just a directory of files, plus a `.kash/` directory with various logs and
metadata.

Note the `.kash/cache` directory contains all the downloaded videos and media you
download, so it can get large.
You can delete these files if they take up too much space.

Note the `.kash/cache` directory contains all the downloaded videos and media you
download, so it can get large.
You can delete these files if they take up too much space.
(See the `cache_list` and `clear_cache` commands.)

Pick a workspace that encompasses a project or topic, and it lets you keep things
organized.

Type `workspace` any time to see the current workspace.

By default, when you are not using the shell inside a workspace directory, or when you
run Kash the first time, it uses the default *sandbox workspace*.

Once you create a workspace, you can `cd` into that workspace and that will become the
current workspace. (If you're familiar with how the `git` command-line works in
conjunction with the `.git/` directory, this behavior is very similar.)

To start a new workspace, run a command like

```
workspace health
```

This will create a workspace directory called `health` in the current directory.
You can run `cd health` or `workspace health` to switch to that directory and begin
working.

### Essential Kash Commands

Kash has quite a few basic commands that are easier to use than usual shell commands.
You can always run `help` for a full list, or run any command with the `--help` option
to see more about the command.

A few of the most important commands for managing files and work are these:

- `check_tools` to confirm your kash setup has necessary tools (like bat and ffmpeg).

- `files` lists files in one or more paths, with sorting, filtering, and grouping.

- `workspace` to show or select or create a new workspace.
  Initially you work in the "sandbox" workspace but for more real work you'll want to
  create a workspace, which is a directory to hold the files you are working with.

- `select` shows or sets selections, which are the set of files the next command will
  run on, within the current workspace.

- `edit` runs the currently configured editor (based on the `EDITOR` environment
  variable) on any file, or the current selection.

- `show` lets you show the first file in the current selection or any file you wish.
  It auto-detects whether to show the file in the console, the browser, or using a
  native app (like Excel for a .xls file).

- `param` lets you set certain common parameters, such as what LLM to use (if you wish
  to use non-default model or language).

- `logs` to see full logs (typically more detailed than what you see in the console).

- `history` to see recent commands you've run.

- `import_item` to add a resource such as a URL or a file to your local workspace.

The set of actions that do specific useful things is much longer, but a few to be aware
of include:

- `chat` chat with any configured LLM, and save the chat as a chat document.

- `web_search_topic` searches the web using Exa.

- `crawl_webpage` fetches a webpage and scrapes the content as text, using Firecrawl.

- `download_media` downloads video or audio media from any of several services like
  YouTube or Apple Podcasts, using yt-dlp.

- `transcribe` transcribes video or audio as text document, using Deepgram.

- `proofread` proofreads a document, editing it for typos and errors only.

- `describe_briefly` describes the contents of a document in about a paragraph.

- `summarize_as_bullets` summarizes a text document as a bulleted item.

- `break_into_paragraphs` breaks a long block of text into paragraphs.

- `insert_section_headings` inserts section headings into a document, assuming it is a
  document (like a transcript after you've run `break_into_paragraphs`) that has
  paragraphs but no section headers.

- `show_webpage` formats Markdown or HTML documents as a nice web page and opens your
  browser to view it.

- `create_pdf` formats Markdown or HTML documents as a PDF.
